In this video you're going to learn a by collection odds and how you can use this new format to drive
more sales for your online store.
We'll start by understanding what a collection that is and the benefits of it.
Then we will look to really see in our ads guide where this new ad format is available what objectives
is it available for it because it's not available for every type of objective.
Then we will start to look at some case studies and see how Adidas is using this new format to get some
great results.
Also see how Tommy Phil Hilfiger is using this and looking at these case studies I think you're going
to give you some really great examples of how you can put it into use for yourself.
Finally then we will finish up in our hands create tool and you'll learn how you can create a code using
the collection format for yourself.
So let's start by understanding what a collection is.
The benefits of it.
So the high level idea is that you inspire shoppers to purchase with an immersive experience.
So let's really come down and have a look at the example here.
This is what it's going to look like in somebodies new news feed.
So what is different here.
Instead of carrousel loud that just has products here or a single product.
Dad what do you actually have as a video here.
And then you have the products related to that video below here and people can click through on these
images directly to your mobile site where they can purchase these products.
Now the key thing to understand about collection odds is that they're only available on mobile right
now and they're really designed for mobile as well and to give a better experience for people.
So the idea is that this ador advert format helps brand connect with people by pairing a video with
photos of your product images in the news feeds.
And the idea is that you inspire sales with deeper stories so instead of just seeing the product you're
actually seeing a video that showcases the key reason why you should buy the product or just to see
the product in action.
And you know paint more of a lifestyle that you will achieve or get if you buy the product.
So classic marketing but just a more interesting odd format than a static image.
Now in terms of the products that you want to put you want to choose products that play off the best
story in you were featured video and in the two examples We'll look at.
Look at two different ways that you can maybe do that.
The key thing is that this is a new format and a lot of advertisers won't be using it yet.
So if people see this in their news feed it's going to catch their attention because it's something
completely new.
So for new ad formats and many more will come out on Facebook.
The key thing is that the sooner that you use them the more benefit that you're going to get out of
them because as more and more competitors start to use them it doesn't grab as much attention.
So for all of these new ad formats the key thing is if they are relevant for your business to use them
straightaway.
Now let's have a look out when you can use this odd format.
It's not going to be suitable for every single marketing objective.
But there are two key areas where it fits perfectly and one is clicks to Web site.
So we're in once again in here in the Facebook Ads guide.
Right now it is available only for clicks to Web site.
You can see Facebook collection here and also web site conversions down here.
So essentially these are the same thing driving people to a website or driving people to a Web site
where it's optimized for conversions and you do need to have the Facebook pixel installed in order for
Facebook to optimize for conversions for you.
But you can see here Facebook collection obviously this is going to be ideal for e-commerce stores where
the products are featured there it's not going to be ideal for brand awareness.
It's not available for brand awareness at the moment.
Event responses doesn't really make sense the generation local awareness Page Likes obviously doesn't
make sense so you can see that this odd format is really tailored to online store sales.
Now let's have a look at some of the case studies to really understand how brands and companies are
using this right now.
And here's what I need US did they used this odd format to really cross-sell with a video and this is
a pretty interesting way that they used it.
Now they got some great results one point X decreased in cost per conversion and a five point 3x return
on outspent.
Why.
Well probably because this is a new ad for matter and it really engaged people.
Now let's look down at what they actually did and this is their example here.
So they their their main objective here was to cross-sell on what they did is they had a video featuring
their new product which is this hoodie.
And then down below they had really complementary products for the featured product which is like the
runners the bag the tracksuit bottoms et cetera.
So it's really weird and objected to cross-sell to these different products as well.
So what they did with this collection format is had the video paired with four products and then this
quickly could open it up into 50 more products so viewers can instantly bread and shop for additional
products.
So what's so cool about this Heidi.
Why would they make a video about it.
Well it says here that it's an oversized leaping to block out noise and help people relax while traveling.
And so I imagine the video showing some of the benefits there.
And actually that does not sound like such a bad idea.
Could be pretty handy when you're traveling.
Finally can see here that when interested customer has clicked on any of these product images they arrived
at the Adidas mobile web site where they can make the purchase.
So this is the key thing that this is an odd format that's only for mobile right now.
It's designed for mobile.
And so if you are sending people are thinking to use this you want to make sure that your site is mobile
optimized and mobile friendly.
Otherwise you're going to be losing those people once they click through to your site.
Now let's have a look at Tommy Hilfiger and see how they use this collections and format and they actually
did a slightly different thing instead of using it to cross-sell.
They used it in a different way so let's have a look at this.
So they use the collection format to enable European customers to instantly buy pieces featured in the
runway show video.
So let's have a look down at this.
They had the runway show video.
And down here below that they have the products featured in there that people could buy straightaway.
So that's not a cross-sell.
It's showing that these are the products they're showing them again and again through a live runway
show.
And then you can go ahead and purchase them by clicking on the links here.
And the results again were pretty impressive 2.2 X higher return on outspanned 37 percent lower cost
per visit to its e-commerce site 2x higher engagement rate.
Now let's come down and have a look at some of the details here how they set this collection up.
Was they uploaded it's video creative.
Along with its product catalog.
So these are really two key steps that I'm going to show you how to do.
First you need to upload the video and you also need to have your product catalog set up as well and
really combine these two things.
Now coming down let's have a look at actually some of the strategy and the tactics behind this campaign
because this is interesting for you to think about as well.
So what they did is they targeted the collection to women across Europe aged 20 to 40 with interest
in fashion and shopping.
The team also installed a Facebook pixel on its mobile site and used information gathered from it to
build a look alike audience based on a woman who had visited or made purchases from their mobile site.
So this is really smart what they did is targeted women by interest and demographics.
They had the Facebook pixel set up.
They obviously created then a custom audience based on that and then using that custom audience of people
who had bought it.
Then they built a look alike audience on the back on the back at that and really extended the reach
of their campaigns.
A nice little strategy.
Could really see how you could put that into action for yourself.
Now that you understand watch collection odds are on the benefits of them.
Let's look into the ads create two.
So you can understand how to set this up for yourself.
So firstly when selecting your marketing objective remember that this format is not available for every
type of marketing campaign just really traffic and conversions and you will have to have the pixel set
up in order to to optimize for that.
That's just like the traffic marketing objective just to keep it pretty simple for the moment.
Now in terms of your ad says traffic audience placements budget that's going to be the same decision
making process as we've covered previously really where there is a difference for this format is down
in the level where you can see this collection format is available and the first thing you want to do
is upload that video that you want to use in this collection on formats so I've just got a video here
that I'm just going to use.
Now I'll let that upload what I want to do is come down into the images here so we can put in the headline
and text as normal so I can put in a new collection.
New collection now what I want to do is re import my product catalog.
Now we've covered this in a previous lecture but essentially inside of your ads manager here you can
see that there is the option to upload a product catalog and essentially that's what you want to go
ahead and do before you start to use this format so I've already done that and now I can come down and
really select the products that I want to include in the site.
And you can start to see them loaded up here.
The images are really being pulled from the spreadsheet that I uploaded where I had the links to the
images on my site.
Now let's come back and see if this video has been uploaded.
Maybe I need to just make sure that this is uploaded before I move on to the next screen.
Now once the video is uploaded you can just select the thumbnail for the video.
And one other thing to note here is that for instagram again it needs to be under 60 seconds.
Now this video is just an example that's just a little bit over 60 seconds.
But keep in mind if you want to run on Facebook and Instagram at this stage you can also upload those
video captions if you want and upload the 20 files which is the file format you can use for video captions
scrolling down a bit now I can see a preview of my AD.
So very simple to set up just two steps.
Upload the video and import that product catalog.
So now you understand what a collection ad is.
And the benefits of it.
Think about how you could use this as part of your marketing campaigns perhaps think about featuring
a product like added us here and cross-selling complimentary products.
Or you could also have a video featuring a lot of products and have them all listed be low.